tmcalgo - A quickly determined name intending to convey the idea that
this is the combination of the TMC data flow with command algorithms.

State Definition:
  State name {
    time_spec command
  }

  A time spec is either a time relative to the beginning of the
  present state or preceeded by "+" to designate time relative
  to the previous command.
  
  A command can be either a TMC statement (generally an "if" statement
  to check for a condition or a "validate" statement to switch to
  another state) or an instrument command.
  
  Instrument commands are executed once (of course) at the specified
  time offset.

		OLD SYNTAX:
  TMC statement are executed at a TMC-determined rate during the
  period of time for which they are valid.
		CHANGE TO:
  TMC statements may appear in four different contexts within an
  algorithm:
    1) Outside any state
	2) At the beginning of a state
	3) At the end of a state
	4) In the middle of a state
  In general, TMC commands are executed according to TMC rules
  of dependency together with additional restrictions applied
  by tmcalgo. Commands listed outside any state have no additional
  restrictions applied. Commands listed at the beginning of a
  state are executed only when that state is valid. Commands
  listed at the end of a state are executed from the time that
  endpoint is reached until the state is invalidated. Commands
  located in the middle of a state are executed at most once
  at the appropriate time.
  
  TMC statements should be listed after any instrument commands
  for the same time:
      3:00 > Lamp On							Correct
	       [ if (stat) validate Lamp_Not_On; ]
		+1 > Lamp Set Point 395

	  3:00 > Lamp On							Incorrect
		   [ if (stat) validate Lamp_Not_On; ]
		   > Lamp Set Point 395

		OLD_SYNTAX:
  TMC statements listed prior to the first time specification
  are valid for the entire duration of the state. TMC statements
  with a time specification are valid from their specified time
  to the time of the next command. (This syntax is borderline:
  1 shift/reduce conflict, but shift is the correct action)
